# Field Types and Options

So far, we just say the property name of the fields that we want, and then Symfony is actually automatically looking on those properties and trying to guess the best field type, how to actually render these things. So it is published as a Boolean in doctrine in the database so it guessed correctly that it wants this to be a checkbox. So obviously that’s not always gonna work, and we’re gonna need to control that. Google for Symfony form field types, and find a document called Form Types Reference. 

This is awesome stuff. So it turns out for every field you have a giant menu of different types you can use. And it’s stuff that you’d expect, like the text area type, and a bunch of HTML5 types, like email, integer, and money. And also some more interesting types, like date and date time, which can help you render date fields, either maybe as three drop downs, or probably more likely as a text field in a certain format. So this is your best friend for figuring out how you want to control how your fields are being rendered.

Now, I have this checkbox on here for “is published,” but instead of having a checkbox, I’d rather have a dropdown with a yes or no option. So, you won’t see a select type in here, because it’s handled by the choice type. The choice type can render things as select dropdowns, radio buttons, or checkboxes based on a number of different options that you give it. One of the options is choices, which, if you look down at the usage example here, you can that choices, very clearly, actually just specifies the three items that you want in the dropdown. 

So let’s use this inside of our form. So in genus form type, there’s an optional second argument to the add function, which is which type that you wanna use. So in our case, we wanna use choice type. So to select that, you’ll actually use its class name – choice type colon colon class. Then the third argument is an array of options to configure that field. Now the options for the fields are different based on which type you’re using. So a lot of the options are similar, like the options you see down here, like the ability to customize the label from here, but a lot of the options are custom only for this choice type. So if you look up the reference, then you’re gonna see all the options that you can do inside of here. 

So, one of the options that we have to pass is the choices, because it needs to know what choices to pass. So let’s do choices, set that to an array, and then this is just an associative array between the text that you want in the option, and the value that should be set on your model class if somebody selects that. So if somebody selects the yes, then we wanna pass true to the set as published function. If they select no, then we wanna pass false to the set as published function. And it’s just that simple. 

So let’s go back, let’s go to our form, refresh, and there it is. Simple as that. So let’s keep going with this. This subfamily field is also a dropdown, so it kind of looks like a choice type. In fact, it’s not quite a choice type. It’s called an entity type. An entity type is like a choice type, but it’s really good at querying trough doctrine for things in the database. So in this case, it’s automatically querying the subfamily entity to get all of the subfamilies. And, yeah, our subfamilies are kind of stupid. They’re actually just people’s last names.

Now one problem with our entity type is it auto selects the first one, so I’d rather have something in the top that says, “Choose a subfamily.”  So if we look down at these options, let’s see if one catches our eye, there’s one here called place holder. So click down to that, and yes, this is exactly what we want. This option determines whether or not a special empty option will appear at the top of a select widget. 

So let’s go back here and add that to our subfamily. Now, we know that this subfamily field is actually defaulting to use the entity type. But I’m gonna purposefully pass null as the second argument, and just set the placeholder argument to “Choose a subfamily.”  Why did I do that? Well first, because I can, because I can be lazy here, because if I pass null, then it will continue to guess this as the entity type field, which is cool. The second reason is that when you use the entity type field, there’s a required option called class. Let me show you an example. Class at bundle colon user. You have to tell it what field to query from. But if you let Symfony guess the field type for you, then it will automatically fill that in. So by being lazy here, and passing null, it’s guessing the field type for me, but it’s also guessing a few other options that are helpful for me, including class, so it’s just nice.

Let’s go back, refresh, and there it is. So a key takeaway here is you guys have a giant dictionary of lots of built-in form field types and you’re gonna configure these by passing a third argument to the add function. 
